Docs for stats (#2525)
puma/puma: docs/stats.md

## accessing stats

Stats can be accessed in two ways:

### control server

`$ pumactl stats` or `GET /stats`

> Read more about `pumactl` and the control server [here](https://github.com/puma/puma#controlstatus-server).

Reviewer: Descriptive link text [for accessibility reasons](https://accessibility.oregonstate.edu/descriptivelinks):

```suggestion
[Read more about `pumactl` and the control server in the README.](https://github.com/puma/puma#controlstatus-server).
```

## accessing stats

stats can be accessed via 

> 1. pumactr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `pumactl`
```

> 1. `pumactl`

Reviewer 2: I think these are the ways you can access stats:

```
1. `pumactl stats`, assuming puma was started with the use of the control/status server
2. `GET /stats` request to the control/status server directly
3. `Puma.stats` from within the Ruby process
```

Reviewer 3: yeah I'd prefer to see `$ pumactl stats` as the way we refer to that, just to make it clear its a CLI command

2. Puma.stats when in non-worker mode

> 3. Puma.stats when in worker mode (should not be invoked from worker process, right?)

Reviewer 2: I think officially these modes are called "single mode" and "cluster mode". The ways you can access stats are the same, they just have different formats depending on the mode.

Reviewer 3: yup let's keep the terminology consistent w/single+cluster.

## meaning of stats

* started_at: when puma was started

> * phase: ??

Reviewer 2: Following how phased restarts work in `cluster.rb` is probably the best resource for this. Off the top of my head, I think the cluster itself has a `phase`, and then each individual worker has a phase as well. Phase starts at 0 for both, but when you issue a phased restart (described in the [restart docs](https://github.com/puma/puma/blob/e2a15675a37bd25184fa7ad8343d23577464a5a0/docs/restart.md)), the phase of the cluster is incremented. Then, workers started in the old phase die off while new workers are spun up, recording their phase as the cluster's current phase. Monitoring the phases of the workers can be used, for example, to see if a phased restart operation was successful or not.

Author: Looking at the code I wasn't able to confidently infer what the different phases were and how to describe them. Maybe someone who knows could flesh that out in https://github.com/puma/puma/blob/master/docs/restart.md and then we can link to it in the stats doc

* workers: ??
* booted_workers: how many workers currently running?
* old_workers: ??
* worker_status: array of hashes of info for each worker (see below)

## meaning of worker stats

* started_at: when the worker was started
* pid: the process id of the worker process
* index: each worker gets a number. if puma is configured to have 3 workers, then this will be 0, 1, or 2
* booted: if it's done booting [?]

> * last_checkin: ??

Reviewer 3: Last time the worker responded to the master process' heartbeat check.

* last_status: a hash of info about the worker's state handling requests
  * backlog: requests that are waiting for an available thread to be available. if this is above 0, you need more capacity [always true?]
  * running: how many threads are running

>   * pool_capacity: ??? (i've observed this number stay at 3 even when threads cool back down to 0, so i dont' know what it means)

Reviewer: https://github.com/puma/puma/blob/ee3341d6708d8cc729417cb9d749ec4af0d5b6f0/lib/puma/server.rb#L204-L214
